
Reflection defines an interface 
java.lang.reflect.Member which is implemented by 
java.lang.reflect.Field, 
java.lang.reflect.Method, and 
java.lang.reflect.Constructor . These objects will be discussed in this lesson. For each member, the lesson will describe the associated APIs to retrieve declaration and type information, any operations unique to the member (for example, setting the value of a field or invoking a method), and commonly encountered errors. Each concept will be illustrated with code samples and related output which approximate some expected reflection uses.
Note: According to The Java Language Specification, Java SE 7 Edition, the members of a class are the inherited components of the class body including fields, methods, nested classes, interfaces, and enumerated types. Since constructors are not inherited, they are not members. This differs from the implementing classes of 
java.lang.reflect.Member.

Fields
Fields have a type and a value. The 
java.lang.reflect.Field class provides methods for accessing type information and setting and getting values of a field on a given object.

Obtaining Field Types describes how to get the declared and generic types of a field
Retrieving and Parsing Field Modifiers shows how to get portions of the field declaration such as public or transient
Getting and Setting Field Values illustrates how to access field values
Troubleshooting describes some common coding errors which may cause confusion

Methods
Methods have return values, parameters, and may throw exceptions. The 
java.lang.reflect.Method class provides methods for obtaining the type information for the parameters and return value. It may also be used to invoke methods on a given object.

Obtaining Method Type Information shows how to enumerate methods declared in a class and obtain type information
Obtaining Names of Method Parameters shows how to retrieve names and other information of a method or constructor's parameters
Retrieving and Parsing Method Modifiers describes how to access and decode modifiers and other information associated with the method
Invoking Methods illustrates how to execute a method and obtain its return value
Troubleshooting covers common errors encountered when finding or invoking methods

Constructors
The Reflection APIs for constructors are defined in 
java.lang.reflect.Constructor and are similar to those for methods, with two major exceptions: first, constructors have no return values; second, the invocation of a constructor creates a new instance of an object for a given class.

Finding Constructors illustrates how to retrieve constructors with specific parameters
Retrieving and Parsing Constructor Modifiers shows how to obtain the modifiers of a constructor declaration and other information about the constructor
Creating New Class Instances shows how to instantiate an instance of an object by invoking its constructor
Troubleshooting describes common errors which may be encountered while finding or invoking constructors

