
The JMX technology provides developers with a flexible means to instrument Java technology-based applications (Java applications), create smart agents, implement distributed management middleware and managers, and smoothly integrate these solutions into existing management and monitoring systems.

The JMX technology enables Java applications to be managed without heavy investment.
A JMX technology-based agent (JMX agent) can run on most Java technology-enabled devices. Consequently, Java applications can become manageable with little impact on their design. A Java application needs only to embed a managed object server and make some of its functionality available as one or several managed beans (MBeans) registered in the object server. That is all it takes to benefit from the management infrastructure.
The JMX technology provides a standard way to manage Java applications, systems, and networks.
For example, the Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE) 5 Application Server conforms to the JMX architecture and consequently can be managed by using JMX technology.
The JMX technology can be used for out-of-the-box management of the Java VM.
The Java Virtual Machine (Java VM) is highly instrumented using the JMX technology. You can start a JMX agent to access the built-in Java VM instrumentation, and thereby monitor and manage a Java VM remotely.
The JMX technology provides a scalable, dynamic management architecture.
Every JMX agent service is an independent module that can be plugged into the management agent, depending on the requirements. This component-based approach means that JMX solutions can scale from small-footprint devices to large telecommunications switches and beyond. The JMX specification provides a set of core agent services. Additional services can be developed and dynamically loaded, unloaded, or updated in the management infrastructure.
The JMX technology leverages existing standard Java technologies.
Whenever needed, the JMX specification references existing Java specifications, for example, the Java Naming and Directory Interface (J.N.D.I.) API.
The JMX technology-based applications (JMX applications) can be created from a NetBeans IDE module.
You can obtain a module from the NetBeans Update Center (select Tools -> Update Center in the NetBeans interface) that enables you to create JMX applications by using the NetBeans IDE. This reduces the cost of development of JMX applications.
The JMX technology integrates with existing management solutions and emerging technologies.
The JMX APIs are open interfaces that any management system vendor can implement. JMX solutions can use lookup and discovery services and protocols such as Jini network technology and the Service Location Protocol (SLP).

