
You can tell what kinds of events a component can fire by looking at the kinds of event listeners you can register on it. For example, the JComboBox class defines these listener registration methods:

addActionListener
addItemListener
addPopupMenuListener

Thus, a combo box supports action, item, and popup menu listeners in addition to the listener methods it inherits from JComponent.
Listeners supported by Swing components fall into two categories:

Listeners that All Swing Components Support
Other Listeners that Swing Components Support


Listeners that All Swing Components Support
Because all Swing components descend from the AWT Component class, you can register the following listeners on any Swing component:

component listener
Listens for changes in the component's size, position, or visibility.
focus listener
Listens for whether the component gained or lost the keyboard focus.
key listener
Listens for key presses; key events are fired only by the component that has the current keyboard focus.
mouse listener
Listens for mouse clicks, mouse presses, mouse releases and mouse movement into or out of the component's drawing area.
mouse-motion listener
Listens for changes in the mouse cursor's position over the component.
mouse-wheel listener
Listens for mouse wheel movement over the component.

Hierarchy Listener
Listens for changes to a component's containment hierarchy of changed events.

Hierarchy Bounds Listener
Listens for changes to a component's containment hierarchy of moved and resized events.

All Swing components descend from the AWT Container class, but many of them are not used as containers. So, technically speaking, any Swing component can fire container events, which notify listeners that a component has been added to or removed from the container. Realistically speaking, however, only containers (such as panels and frames) and compound components (such as combo boxes) typically fire container events.
JComponent provides support for three more listener types. You can register an 
ancestor listener to be notified when a component's containment ancestors are added to or removed from a container, hidden, made visible, or moved. This listener type is an implementation detail which predated hierarchy listeners.
The other two listener types are part of the Swing components' conformance to the JavaBeans specification. Among other things, this means that Swing components support bound and constrained properties and notify listeners of changes to the properties. Property change listeners listen for changes to bound properties and are used by several Swing components, such as 
formatted text fields, to track changes on a component's bound properties. Also, property change listeners, as well as 
vetoable change listeners are used by builder tools to listen for changes on constrained properties. For more information refer to the 
Properties lesson in the 
JavaBeans trail. 
Other Listeners that Swing Components Support
The following table lists Swing components and the specialized listeners they support, not including listeners supported by all Components, Containers, or JComponents. In many cases, the events are fired directly from the component. In other cases, the events are fired from the component's data or selection model. To find out the details for the particular component and listener you are interested in, go first to the component how-to section, and then if necessary to the listener how-to section.

This table lists Swing components with their specialized listeners

Component
Action Listener
Caret Listener
Change Listener
Document Listener,
Undoable Edit Listener
Item Listener
List Selection Listener
Window Listener
Other Types of Listeners


button


 


 


 
 
 


check box


 


 


 
 
 


color chooser
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


combo box


 
 
 


 
 
 


dialog
 
 
 
 
 
 


 


editor pane
 


 


 
 
 

hyperlink


file chooser


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


formatted text field




 


 
 
 
 


frame
 
 
 
 
 
 


 


internal frame
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

internal frame


list
 
 
 
 
 


 

list data


menu
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

menu


menu item


 


 


 
 

menu key
menu drag mouse


option pane
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


password field




 


 
 
 
 


popup menu
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

popup menu


progress bar
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


radio button


 


 


 
 
 


slider
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


spinner
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


tabbed pane
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


table
 
 
 
 
 


 
  table model
table column model
cell editor


text area
 


 


 
 
 
 


text field




 


 
 
 
 


text pane
 


 


 
 
 
  
hyperlink


toggle button


 


 


 
 
 


tree
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  tree expansion
tree will expand
tree model
tree selection


viewport
(used by scrollpane)
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


