

It's time to write your first application! These detailed instructions are for users of Solaris OS and Linux. Instructions for other platforms are in 
"Hello World!" for Microsoft Windows and 
"Hello World!" for the NetBeans IDE.
If you encounter problems with the instructions on this page, consult the 
Common Problems (and Their Solutions). 


A Checklist
Creating Your First Application

Create a Source File
Compile the Source File into a .class File
Run the Program





 A Checklist  

To write your first program, you'll need:


The Java SE Development Kit 8 (JDK 8)
You can 
download the Solaris OS or Linux version now. (Make sure you download the JDK, not the JRE.) Consult the 
installation instructions.


A text editor
In this example, we'll use Pico, an editor available for many UNIX-based platforms. You can easily adapt these instructions if you use a different text editor, such as vi or emacs.


These two items are all you'll need to write your first application.



 Creating Your First Application
Your first application, HelloWorldApp, will simply display the greeting "Hello world!". To create this program, you will:


Create a source file
A source file contains code, written in the Java programming language, that you and other programmers can understand. You can use any text editor to create and edit source files.


Compile the source file into a .class file
The Java programming language compiler (javac) takes your source file and translates its text into instructions that the Java virtual machine can understand. The instructions contained within this .class file are known as bytecodes.


Run the program
The Java application launcher tool (java) uses the Java virtual machine to run your application.


 Create a Source File
To create a source file, you have two options:


You can save the file 
HelloWorldApp.java on your computer and avoid a lot of typing. Then, you can go straight to Compile the Source File.


Or, you can use the following (longer) instructions.


First, open a shell, or "terminal," window.
