
Questions

At the beginning of this lesson, you learned that the core collection interfaces
 are organized into two distinct
inheritance trees. One interface in particular is not considered to be 
a true Collection, and therefore sits at the top of its own tree. What is the name 
of this interface?


Each interface in the collections framework is declared
with the <E> syntax, which tells you that it is 
generic. When you declare a Collection instance, what is
the advantage of specifying the type of objects that it will contain?


What interface represents a collection that does not allow duplicate elements?


What interface forms the root of the collections hierarchy?


What interface represents an ordered collection that may contain duplicate elements?


What interface represents a collection that holds elements prior to processing?


What interface repesents a type that maps keys to values?


What interface represents a double-ended queue?

Name three different ways to iterate over the elements of a List.
True or False: Aggregate operations are mutative operations that modify the underlying collection.

Exercises

Write a program that prints its arguments in random order. Do not make a copy of the argument array.
Demonstrate how to print out the elements using both streams and the traditional enhanced for statement.


Take the 
FindDupsexample 
 and modify it to use a SortedSet instead of a Set. Specify a Comparator so that case is ignored when sorting and identifying set elements.
Write a method that takes a List<String> and applies 
String.trim to each element. 

Consider the four core interfaces, Set, List, Queue, and Map.
For each of the following four assignments, specify which of the four core
interfaces is best-suited, and explain how to use it to implement the assignment.
  
Whimsical Toys Inc (WTI) needs to record the names of all its employees. Every month, an employee will be chosen at random
 from these records to receive a free toy.
WTI has decided that each new product will be named after an employee but only first names will be used, and each name
 will be used only once. Prepare a list of unique first names.
WTI decides that it only wants to use the most popular names for its toys. Count up the number of employees who have each first
 name.
WTI acquires season tickets for the local lacrosse team, to be shared by employees. Create a waiting list for this popular
sport.




Check your answers.
