
Java language first edition came out in the client-server era.  Thick clients were developed with rich GUI interfaces. Java first edition, JSE (Java Standard Edition) had/has the following in its belt:

GUI capabilities (AWT, Swing)Network computing capabilities (RMI)Multi-tasking capabilities (Threads)

With JSE the following Java code executions are possible:

Figure 1: Stand alone execution

Stand alone Java application(Figure 1) Stand alone application refers to a Java program where both the user interface and business modules are running on the same computer.  The application may or may not use a database to persist data. The user interface could be either AWT or Swing.The application would start with amain()method of a Class.  The application stops when themain()method exits, or if an exception is thrown from the application to the JVM. Classes are loaded to memory and compiled as needed, either from the file system or from a *.jar file, by the JVM.Invocation of Java programs distributed in this manner requires usage of the command line.  Once the user has all the class files, he needs to launch the application by the following command line (where Main is the name of the class containing the main() method.)

Execution of classjava Main

Java 'jar' class librariesUtility classes, framework classes, and/or third party classes are usually packaged and distributed in Java ' *.jar' files.  These 'jar' files need to be put in the CLASSPATH of the java program from  which these classes are going to be used.If a jar file is executable, it can be run from the command line:

Execution of archivejava -jar Application.jar



Client Server applicationsThe client server applications consist of a front-end, and a back-end part, each running on a separate computer. The idea is that the business logic would be on the back-end part of the program, which would be reused by all the clients. Here the challenge is to achieve a separation between front-end user interface code, and the back-end business logic code.The communication between the front-end and the back-end can be achieved by two ways.One way is to define a data communicationprotocolbetween the two tiers. The back-end part would listen for an incoming request. Based on theprotocolit interprets the request and sends back the result in data form.The other way is to useJava Remote Invocation(RMI). With the use of RMI, a remote object can be created and used by the client.  In this case Java objects are transmitted across the network.More information can be found about client-server programming, with sample code, at theClient Server Chapterin this book.

Web ApplicationsFor applications needed by lots of client installations, the client-server model did not work. Maintaining and upgrading the hundreds or thousands of clients caused a problem. It was not practical. The solution to this problem was to create a unified, standard client, for all applications, and that is theBrowser.Having a standard client, it makes sense to create a unified, standard back-end service as well, and that is theApplication Server.Web Applicationis an application that is running in theApplication Server, and it can be accessed and used by theBrowserclient.There are three main area of interest in Web Applications, those are:TheWeb Browser. This is the container of rendering HTML text, and running client scriptsTheHTTPprotocol. Text data are sent back and forth between Browser and the ServerTheWeb serverto serve static content,Application serverto serve dynamic content and hostEJBs.Wikipedia also has an article aboutWeb application.

