
Nesting a class inside a class[edit]

When a class is declared inside another class, the nested class' access modifier can bepublic,private,protectedorpackage(default).


The inner class has access to the enclosing class instance's variables and methods, even private ones, as seen above. This makes it very different from the nested class in C++, which are equivalent to the "static" inner classes, see below.
An inner object has a reference to the outer object. In other words, all inner objects are tied to the outer object. The inner object can only be created through a reference to the 'outer' object. See below.


Note that inner objects, because they are tied to the outer object, cannot contain static variables or methods.
When in a non-static method of the outer class, you can directly usenew InnerClass(), since the class instance is implied to bethis.
You can directly access the reference to the outer object from within an inner class with the syntaxOuterClass.this; although this is usually unnecessary because you already have access to its fields and methods.
Inner classes compile to separate ".class" bytecode files, with the name of the enclosing class, followed by a "$", followed by the name of the inner class. So for example, the above inner class would be compiled to a file named "OuterClass$InnerClass.class".

Static nested classes[edit]

A nested class can be declaredstatic. These classes are not bound to an instance of the outer defining class. A static nested class has no enclosing instance, and therefore cannot access instance variables and methods of the outer class. You do not specify an instance when creating a static inner class. This is equivalent to the inner classes in C++.

Nesting a class inside a method[edit]

These inner classes, also calledlocal classes, cannot have access modifiers, like local variables, since the class is 'private' to the method. The inner class can be onlyabstractorfinal.


In addition to instance variables of the enclosing class, local classes can also access local variables of the enclosing method, but only ones that are declaredfinal. This is because the local class instance might outlive the invocation of the method, and so needs its own copy of the variable. To avoid problems with having two different copies of a mutable variable with the same name in the same scope, it is required to befinal, so it cannot be changed.

