
The success of the Java platform and the concepts of the write once, run anywhere principle has led to the development of similar frameworks and platforms. Most notable of these is the Microsoft's.NET frameworkand its open-source equivalentMono.

The .NET framework[edit]

The .NET framework borrows many of the concepts and innovations of Java — their alternative for the JVM is called theCommon Language Runtime (CLR), while their alternative for the byte-code is theCommon Intermediate Language (CIL). In fact, the .NET platform had an implementation of a Java-like language calledVisual J#(formerly known asJ++).
J# is normally not supported with the JVM because instead of compiling it in Java byte-code, the .NET platform compiles the code into CIL, thus making J# different from the Java programming language. Furthermore, because J# implements the .NET Base Class Libraries (BCL) instead of the Java Class Libraries, J# is nothing more than a non-standard extension of the Java programming language. Due to the lack of interest from developers, Microsoft had to withdraw their support for J#, and focused on a similar programming language: C#.

Third-party compilers targeting the JVM[edit]

The word Java, by itself, usually refers to the Java programming language which was designed for use with the Java platform. Programming languages are typically outside of the scope of the phrase "platform".  However, Oracle does not encourage the use of any other languages with the platform, and lists the Java programming language as a core part of the Java 2 platform. The language and runtime are therefore commonly considered a single unit.
There are cases where you might want to program using a different language (say,Python) and yet be able to generate Java byte-code (instead of the Python compiled code) to be run with the JVM. Many third-party programming language vendors provide compilers that can compile code written in their language to Java byte-code. For instance, Python developers can useJythoncompilers to compile Python code to the Java byte-code format (as illustrated below).


Figure 5:Third-party JVM-targeted compilation for non-Java source compilation to Java byte-code. Illustrated exampleshows Python source being compiled to both Python compiled code and Java byte-code.

Of late, JVM-targeted third-party programming and scripting languages have seen tremendous growth. Some of these languages are also used to extend the functionalities of the Java language itself. A few examples include the following:

GroovyPizzaGJ(Generic Java) – later officially incorporated into Java SE 5.NetREXX



Java OverviewJava ProgrammingThe Java PlatformGetting started






